the investigation of the assassination
of President John F Kennedy performance
of the Intelligence Agency's book 5
final report of the Select Committee to
study governmental operations with
respect to intelligence activities
United States Senate April 23rd 1976
Appendix C chronology 1959 January 1st
Fidel Castro takes over the Cuban
government Batista and his personal
aides leave Cuba December 11th Dulles
approves quote thorough consideration be
given to the elimination of Fidel Castro
end quote 1960 late September Bissell
and Edwards brief Dulles and Cobell
about operations against Castro initial
meeting between Rosselli Mayhew and CIA
support chief a subsequent meeting takes
place in Florida 1961 January 22nd
President Kennedy succeeds President
Eisenhower March President Kennedy
raises subject of assassination with
senators Mathers indicating his
disapproval April ra's Sally passes
poison pills to a Cuban in Miami April
15th to 17th Bay of Pigs invasion fails
May 22nd Hoover memorandum to Attorney
General Robert Kennedy noting CIA had
used Giancana in clandestine efforts
against Castro November 16th president
gives speech mentioning opposition to
assassination November 29th
John McCone succeeds Allen Dulles as
director CIA November operation Mongoose
is created December FBI meets with
Lansdale regarding Mongoose 1962
February 19th Helms succeeds Bissell as
deputy director plans CIA April Harvey
establishes contact with Rosselli late
April Harvey passes poison pills to
Rosselli in Miami May 7th
Houston and Edwards briefed Attorney
General on pre Bay of Pigs underworld
assassination plot May 10th attorney
general Kennedy tells Hoover that the
CIA has used underworld figures in an
effort to assassinate Castro September
7th Rosselli tells Harvey the pills are
still in Cuba October 22nd - 28 Cuban
Missile Crisis November Operation
Mongoose ends 1963 early 1963 william
harvey tells underworld figures the CIA
is no longer interested in assassinating
Castro March 18th attack on a Soviet
vessel off the northern coast of Cuba by
members of alpha 66 assisted by members
of the second National Front of
Escambray reportedly occurs March 26th
attack on a Soviet vessel by members of
commandos l66 another anti-castro group
reportedly occurs April special group
discusses the contingency of Castro's
death May
member Lee Harvey Oswald moves to New
Orleans becomes involved with F PCC he
contacts anti-castro Cubans as well mid
1963 series of meetings among major
leaders of the anti-castro movement June
special group decides to step up covert
operations against Cuba July 24th ten
Cuban exiles arrive in New Orleans from
Miami and join the quote training camp
end quote
north of New Orleans this training camp
is directed by the same individuals who
were previously involved in procuring
dynamite a a lifelong friend of M lash
had helped procure the dynamite late
July Carlos Springer is requested to
assist exiles at the training camp in
returning to Miami July 31st the FBI
sees is more than a ton of dynamite 20
bomb casings napalm material and other
devices at a home in the New Orleans
area articles appear in the New Orleans
times-picayune on August 1st 2nd and 4th
1963 August 16th Chicago sun-times
carries an article that reports CIA had
dealings with the underworld figure Sam
Giancana Holmes informs McKown of the
CIA operation involving Giancana and
tells him it involved assassination
August according to FBI report a Latin
American military officer attends a
Cuban exile group meeting and talks of
assassination early September talks
between the Cuban delegate to the United
Nations lechuga and a u.s. delegate
I'd would are proposed by the Cubans
September 7th CIA case officers after
their first meeting with M lash since
prior to the October 1962 missile crisis
cable headquarters that M lash is
interested in attempting n quote inside
job
end quote against Castro and is awaiting
a u.s. plan of action
Castro gives an impromptu three our
interview with AP reporter Daniel Harker
he warns that US leaders aiding
terrorists plans to eliminate Cuban
leaders will themselves not be safe
September twelfth Cuban coordinating
committee meets to conduct a broad
review of the US government's Cuban
contingency plans they agree there is a
strong likelihood that Castro would
retaliate in some way against the rash
of covert activity in Cuba however an
attack on US officials within the u.s.
is considered unlikely late September
Oswald is in Mexico City and visits both
the Cuban and Soviet consulates
September 27th the coordinator of Cuban
Affairs circulates a memorandum listing
assignments for contingency papers
relating to possible retaliatory actions
by the Castro regime no responsibility
is assigned for attacks on US officials
within the United States October 6th FBI
headquarters learns of Oswald contacts
in Mexico City October 10th
the FBI is told by an informant that the
CIA is meeting with AM lash October 24th
jean-daniel
the French reporter conducts a brief
interview with President Kennedy before
setting off on an assignment in Cuba
President Kennedy expresses his feeling
that Castro had betrayed the revolution
October 29th Desmond Fitzgerald a senior
CIA officer meets AM lash Fitzgerald
tells em lash that a coup would receive
US support
Fitzgerald is introduced to AM lash as a
personal representative of attorney
general Kennedy November 1st diem is
assassinated following a coup November
case officer is told by Fitzgerald that
M lash may be told the rifles telescopic
sights and explosives will be provided
November 17th
according to FBI reports the
cuban-american is at the home of a
member of the tampa FPC C he is there
awaiting a telephone call from Cuba
which is to give him the quote go ahead
order and quote to leave the US November
18th President Kennedy makes a public
appearance in Tampa and delivers a
speech on Cuba policy in Miami November
19th
Castro contacts Daniel and spends six
hours talking to him about us Cuban
relations November 20th CIA officer
telephones am lash and tells him there
will be a meeting on November 22nd M
lash is told that it was the meeting he
has requested according to FBI reports
the Cuban American obtains a Mexican
tourist card at the consulate in Tampa
November 22nd President Kennedy is
assassinated the case officer meets with
AM lash he refers to President Kennedy
speech of November 18th in Miami and
indicates that Fitzgerald helped write
the speech he tells em lash the
explosives and rifles with telescopic
sights will be provided the case officer
also offers am lash the poison pen
device but hem lash is dissatisfied with
it as the meeting breaks up they are
told President Kennedy has been
assassinated
Daniel spends the day with Castro and
later reports his reaction to the news
of the assassination McKown requests all
agency material on oswald mexico station
cables CIA headquarters 1730 hours to
inform them of Oswald's october visit to
mexico city FBI headquarters dispatches
a teletype at 9:40 p.m. to all field
offices requesting contact of all
informants for information bearing on
the assassination FBI headquarters
dispatches a teletype at 11 o'clock p.m.
to all field offices requesting they
resolve all allegations pertaining to
the assassination November 23rd director
McComb meets with President Johnson and
McGeorge Bundy and briefs them on
information CIA headquarters had
received from Mexico Station CIA
headquarters cables the EM lash case
officer and orders him to break contact
with AM lash because of the president's
assassination and to return to
headquarters CIA personnel on the CI
staff prepare a memorandum suggesting
that Oswald's contacts in Mexico City
with Soviet personnel might have
sinister implications this information
is transmitted to CIA's liaison with FBI
by telephone at 10:30 a.m. desk officer
is put in charge of CIA investigation of
the assassination CIA headquarters
telephones the Mexico station to get the
planned arrest of Duran called off but
learns the arrests could not be called
off Kara mezzanine
sends a cable to Mexico station saying
the arrest quote could jeopardize us
freedom of action on the whole question
of Cuban responsibility end quote
the GAT informs FBI headquarters that
the US ambassador to Mexico is concerned
that Cubans were behind Oswald's
assassination of President Kennedy the
Ambassador requests both the CIA and FBI
do everything possible to establish or
refute this Cuban connection FBI
headquarters dispatches a teletype to
all field offices rescinding the early
teletype of November 22nd 1963 November
24th Mexico Station dispatches a cable
to headquarters with the names of all
known contacts of certain Soviet
personnel in Mexico City among the names
in the cable is that of M lash at 10:00
a.m.
director McComb meets with the President
and briefs him about CIA's operational
plans against Cuba cablegram is sent
from Mexico to CIA headquarters stating
that the u.s. Ambassador to Mexico feels
that the Soviets are too sophisticated
to participate in a direct assassination
of President Kennedy but the Cubans
would be stupid enough to have
participated with Oswald Oswald is
murdered at 12:21 p.m. Eastern Standard
Time November 25th the case officer
prepares a contact report on the
November 22nd meeting with AM lash on
Fitzgerald's orders no mention is made
of the poison pen being offered to AM
lash at noon D shows up at the US
Embassy in Mexico City
he tells embassy personnel that he was
in the Cuban consulate on September 18th
and saw Cubans pay Oswald a sum of money
and talk about Oswald's assassinating
someone at 12:00
p.m. Mexico dispatches a cable to CIA
headquarters reminding headquarters of
Castro's September 7th 1963 statement
threatening u.s. leaders a senior US
embassy official in Mexico City tells a
senior Mexican government official known
facts about Oswald's visit to Mexico
City and raises questions of Cuban
involvement November 26th McCune again
meets with President Johnson the
president tells him the FBI has
responsibility for the investigation of
the president's death and directs him to
make CIA resources available to assist
the FBI's investigation the American
ambassador in Mexico sends a cable to
the State Department through CIA
channels he gives his opinion that the
Cubans were involved in the
assassination CIA headquarters cables
CIA stations in Europe and Canada for
all information on the assassination
issue noting they should carefully
examine material obtained from a
specified source Deputy Attorney General
katzenback writes presidential assistant
bill moyers stating quote that the facts
should be made public in such a way as
to satisfy the people of the US and
abroad that the facts have been told and
a statement to this effect be made now
end quote
the public should be satisfied that
Oswald was the assassin and speculation
about his motive ought to be cut off
November 27th look at cables FBI
headquarters and notes a press release
referencing to Castro speech of
September 7th 1963 one CIA station
cables information received from the
specified sources that AM lash had been
indiscreet in his conversations FBI
sends a supervisor to Mexico City to
coordinate the investigation
and to pursue it vigorously until the
desired results are obtained November
28th CIA headquarters cables a reminder
to the Mexico station to quote follow
all leads and quote and to continue to
investigate the possibility of Cuban or
Soviet involvement CIA headquarters
warns the station chief in Mexico that
the Ambassador was pushing the case too
hard and his proposals could lead to a
flap with the Cubans November 29th
President Johnson announces formation of
the warren commission after discussing
other possibilities with director Hoover
November 30th director McComb meets with
President Johnson at 11 o'clock a.m. and
they discussed the Cuba question D is
mentioned December 1st McComb meets with
both Bundy and President Johnson McCombs
memorandum indicates they discussed
Dee's story CIA headquarters cables
Mexico station indicating it has
received information from a sensitive
source that a Cuban Airlines flight to
Havana had been delayed in Mexico City
from 6 o'clock p.m. until 11 o'clock
p.m. on the day of the assassination
it was awaiting an unidentified
passenger who arrived in the twin-engine
aircraft
and failed to go through customs the
passenger rode in the cockpit on the
flight to Havana December 2nd at 10
o'clock AM McCone meets with the
president and Bundy at 3 o'clock a.m.
McCombs Calendar reveals he attended a
meeting at the CIA with the subject
being Cuba December 3rd CIA headquarters
receives information from Mexico that
the Cuban American left the US on
November 23rd and flew from Mexico City
to Havana on November 27th December 4th
CIA receives a report
from one of its Cuban agents that he
thought he had met Oswald in Cuba Mexico
City or the United States this agent
believes that the Cuban government
employed assassins and had carried out
at least one assassination in Mexico
FBI memorandum from Sullivan to Belmont
indicates there is no evidence that
Oswald's assassination of the president
was inspired or directed by pro-castro
organizations or by any foreign country
December 5th
Mexico station cables that someone who
saw the Cuban American board the
aircraft to Havana on November 27th
reported that he quote looked suspicious
end quote
December 6th Warren Commission holds its
first meeting as the FBI and CIA are
completing their own investigations
December 8th CIA headquarters cables
it's Miami station ordering a halt to an
operation to supply weapons to AM lash
pending a high-level policy review
December 9th a memorandum to director
McComb discusses US operations against
Cuba but does not mention the EM lash
operation or any other specific
operation FBI's five-volume report on
the assassination is completed Deputy
Attorney General Katzenbach writes the
Warren Commission and recommends that
the Commission immediately state that
the FBI report clearly shows Oswald was
a loner
December 10th whoever receives report on
the investigative deficiencies in the
handling of the pre assassination oswald
case results in disciplinary action
against 17 Bureau officials director
McComb meets with CIA staff and the
subject of the meeting is Cuba December
12 CIA mexico station reports that FBI
is pushing to wind up the mexican aspect
of the case late December CIA desk
officer completes a brief report on his
investigation which is submitted to the
president
the CIA decides to have
counterintelligence division continue
the investigation 1964 January 23rd a
subordinate to the chief of
counterintelligence is designated the
point of record for all matters relating
to the assassination and the Warren
Commission January 24th FBI liaison is
told by CIA official that there are no
active plots against Castro January 28th
Rankin meets with Hoover and they
discussed the allegation that Oswald was
an FBI informant January 31st Hoover
indicates in his memorandum of the
January 28th 1964 meeting that he did
not appreciate the statement by Chief
Justice Warren that the bureau's report
was a skeleton report March 26th the
president's commission requests the FBI
to respond to 52 questions in a
subsequent memorandum for 364 by a
bureau supervisor to William Sullivan he
states the Commission is cross-examining
the bureau in regard to its
investigation of the president's
assassination Rankin requests that the
FBI furnished the Commission with
information on certain pro-castro and
anti-castro organizations May 14th
both Hoover and Helms testify the case
will always be open May 20th Rankin
requests additional information on
certain pro-castro and anti-castro
groups June 11th wine Commission
receives a summary of the organization's
from the field offices but not from FBI
headquarters
Hoover's letter informs the Commission
that the CIA and Department of the army
quote may have pertinent information
concerning these organizations end quote
July the FBI learned some details of the
CIA's and lash operation from one of the
FBI's informants September 9th the
bureau informs the White House and the
acting Attorney General that the
commission's report is seriously
inaccurate insofar as its treatment of
the FBI is concerned and quote September
25th bureau receives a copy of the
warren commission's report September
30th assistant director Gail presents a
memorandum that reviewed the Commission
report quote as it pertained to FBI
shortcomings and quote bureau again
disciplines agents October 1st
an FBI Inspector telephonically contacts
Rankin and informs him that quote he did
the bureau a great disservice and he'd
out McCarthy McCarthy end quote late
1964 M lash becomes more insistent that
the assassination of Cuban leadership is
a necessity he is told that the US
government cannot become involved in the
quote first step and quote he is put in
contact with b1 and the CIA through b1
is kept informed of the plotting 1965
may a contacts I and NS with information
about the an lash operation he has
turned over to the FBI for handling the
FBI informed the CIA about a June both
agencies interrogate a and establish
that he knew who was involved in the am
lash operation including the CIA June
23rd CIA headquarters cables it stations
stating the entire am lash group is
insecure and further contact constitutes
a menace to CIA operations July 2nd FBI
writes that the details of the meeting
with a and the CIA were sent to the
White House the Attorney General and the
DCI 1967 late January Drew Pearson meets
with Chief Justice Warren and informs
Warren that a lawyer was told by an
underworld contact that Castro planned
Kennedy's assassination January 31st
Rowley meets with Warren Rowley is
informed of the lawyer story February
2nd Warren calls Raleigh and informs
Riley that he spoke with Pierson who
said the lawyer wanted to see Warren
February 8th tentative date set by
Pierson and Warren for the lawyer to
meet with Secret Service
neither Pierson nor the lawyer contact
Secret Service February 10th Rowley
advises Warren that neither Pierson nor
Warren have contacted Secret Service
Raleigh tells Warren the information
should be passed to the FBI February 13
FBI is informed by James J Rowley
that Chief Justice Warren had recently
been informed of u.s. attempts to
assassinate Castro in 1962 and 1963 that
Castro had decided to utilize the same
procedure and that Warren once these
allegations looked into February 15th
Hoover informs Riley that the bureau is
quote not conducting any investigation
quote but would accept volunteered
information March fourth Robert
Kennedy's secretary calls hoover and
requests a copy of edwards memo of May
7th 1962 at which
I'm Robert Kennedy was briefed on
assassination plots March 7th drew
Pearson's column is published March 17th
presidential assistant
Marvin Watson advises deloach that
President Johnson has instructed the FBI
to interview the lawyer concerning any
knowledge he had in the assassination of
Kennedy Watson says request quote
stemmed from a communication the FBI had
sent the White House some weeks ago and
quote March 20th the lawyer interviewed
by the Washington field office would not
identify his source of the information
that Castro plotted to kill Kennedy
agents interviewing the lawyer were
instructed to make it clear the FBI was
quote not interfering with any current
investigation in New Orleans
end quote March 22nd the FBI forwards
results of the interview with the lawyer
to the White House the information
indicates that the lawyer sources
allegedly were used by the CIA in
attempts against Castro the White House
also receives information originally
from CIA relating to CIA's use of Mayhew
and Giancana in a plot against Castro
material also includes information that
Robert Kennedy advised on May 9th 1962
that CIA should never take such steps
without first checking with the
Department of Justice Helms meets the
president at the White House in early
evening March 23rd Helms assigns the
Inspector General the task of reporting
on CIA assassination attempts against
Castro April 4th Watson calls Deloatch
and advises that the president is
convinced there was a plot in connection
with Kennedy's assassination
April 24th IG report is delivered to
homes in installments May 20 SEC
and Helms returns copy of report to IG
May 23rd all notes and other derived
source material of the IG report are
destroyed